# Employee-attrition-prediction

This project aims to predict the employee attrition using several machine learning algorithm namely logistic regression (LR), naive bayes (NB) and random forest (RF). This project aims to recreate real life scenarios with different attrition rate by adjusting the target distribution. The original target distribution where employees left the company accounted for 16% while the slightly balanced target distribution where employees left the company accounted for 37%. Hence the dataset with balanced target distribution represents company that has serious attrition rate. 

This study has found that LR had performed well with original dataset with 88.44% testing accuracy and 93.46% testing F1-score after hyperparameter tuning. While NB performed the best after hyperparameter tuning with balanced dataset with testing accuracy and F1-score of 86.39% and 91.97% respectively. From this experiment, it was noted that RF has overfitted for both scenarios with or without hyperparameter tuning. After rigorous feature selection and reduction to 4 features, the overfitting issue only can become better.

This study also concluded that overtime commitment, job and environment factor should have more emphasize to lower employee attrition. While human resources need to consider age of employee during hiring process given that this variable has strong influence as well. Older employees may leave company due to health issues or reach retirement age, while younger employees may seek for bigger challenge or higher income in other company. Hence board of directors of company could provide various incentives and clear promotion scheme to reward employees as motivations. 
